Updating the installation guide (#616)
MicrosoftDocs/quantum-docs-pr: articles/install-guide/csinstall.md

---
title: Develop with Q# + C#
author: natke
ms.author: nakersha
ms.date: 9/30/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.custom: how-to
uid: microsoft.quantum.install.cs
---
# Develop with Q# + C#

> This is the installation guide for the QDK environment to program hybrid Q# and C# programs.

Reviewer: Suggest more active language:

"Install the QDK to develop C# host programs to call Q# operations" or similar

> Q# is a member of the .NET ecosystem and therefore is built to play well with other .NET languages--specifically C#. You can work with this pairing inside different development environments:

Reviewer 2: Totally agreed. While it is true that Q# can play well with .NET languages, Q# itself is not a .NET language. As @bromeg notes, we've seen some confusion around this (e.g.: people reading the "sharp" as indicating that Q# is tied to C#), such that being a bit proactive to mitigate that confusion could help.

> Q# is a member of the .NET ecosystem and therefore is built to play well with other .NET languages--specifically C#. You can work with this pairing inside different development environments:

Author: Solved in https://github.com/geduardo/quantum-docs-pr/commit/7532a8f7bc7de89776fe5d3bcd2ae5e76c5d4028

- Q# + C# using Visual Studio (Windows)
- Q# + C# using Visual Studio Code (Windows, Linux and Mac)

> - Q# + C# using the `dotnet` command-line tool

Author: Done in https://github.com/geduardo/quantum-docs-pr/commit/742f39b9bb99bb9e0c6432cfe080e22431b85ddc

## Develop with Q# + C# using Visual Studio

Visual Studio offers a rich environment for developing Q# programs. The Q# Visual Studio extension contains templates for Q# files and projects as well as syntax highlighting, code completion and IntelliSense support.

1. Pre-requisites

>     - [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/) 16.3, with the .NET Core cross-platform development workload enabled

Reviewer 3: @cgranade, @bettinaheim @anpaz-msft how do we feel about calling out version number here? Are we limited by this, or can we say to make sure to have the latest version of Visual Studio?

Reviewer 2: My own 2¢ is that it's worth being explicit. VS versions can be finnicky enough that it's good to make sure we've tested with new versions before incrementing here rather than saying "latest."

1. Install the Q# Visual Studio extension

    - Download the [Visual Studio extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=quantum.DevKit)

>     - Add the extension to Visual Studio

Reviewer 3: I would replace these two instructions with "Download and install the Visual Studio Code extension" (keeping the link)

Author: Done in https://github.com/geduardo/quantum-docs-pr/commit/1fa68d9af90806f0ab9f40de19a76881199308f0

        - Go to **File** -> **New** -> **Project**
        - Type `Q#` in the search box
        - Select **Q# Application**
        - Select **Next**
        - Choose a name and location for your application
        - Select **Create**

    - Inspect the project

        You should see that two files have been created: `Driver.cs`, which is the C# host application; and `Operation.qs`, which is a Q# program that defines a simple operation to print a message to the console.

    - Run the application

        - Select **Debug** -> **Start Without Debugging**
        - You should see the text `Hello quantum world!` printed to a console window.

> [!NOTE]
> * If you have multiple projects within one Visual Studio solution, all projects contained in the solution need to be in the same folder as the solution, or in one of its subfolders.  

## Develop with Q# + C# using Visual Studio Code

Visual Studio Code (VS Code) offers a rich environment for developing Q# programs on Windows, Linux and Mac.  The Q# VS Code extension includes support for Q# syntax highlighting, code completion, and Q# code snippets.

1. Pre-requisites

   - [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)

>    - [.NET Core SDK 3.0 or later](https://www.microsoft.com/net/download)

Reviewer 3: I believe we will be switching to 3.1 as of the next release. We need to remember to update this.

1. Install the Quantum VS Code extension

    - Install the [VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=quantum.quantum-devkit-vscode)

1. Install the Quantum project templates:

   - Go to **View** -> **Command Palette**
   - Select **Q#: Install project templates**

    You now have the Quantum Development Kit installed and ready to use in your own applications and libraries.

1. Verify the installation by creating a `Hello World` application

    - Create a new project:

        - Go to **View** -> **Command Palette**
        - Select **Q#: Create New Project**
        - Select **Standalone console application**
        - Navigate to the location on the file system where you would like to create the application
        - Click on the **Open new project...** button, once the project has been created

>     - If you don't have already installed the C# extension for VS Code a pop-up will appear. Install the extension. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - If you don't already have the C# extension for VS Code installed, a pop-up will appear. Install the extension. 
```

---
title: Develop with Q# + C#
author: natke
ms.author: nakersha
ms.date: 9/30/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.custom: how-to
uid: microsoft.quantum.install.cs
---
# Develop with Q# + C#

This is the installation guide for the QDK environment to program hybrid Q# and C# programs.

> Q# is a member of the .NET ecosystem and therefore is built to play well with another languages of the .NET ecosystem, specifically with C#. There are different environments in which you can combine both:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Q# is a member of the .NET ecosystem and therefore is built to play well with other .NET languages--specifically C#. You can work with this pairing inside different development environments:
```

- Q# + C# using Visual Studio (Windows)
- Q# + C# using Visual Studio Code (Windows, Linux and Mac)
- Q# + C# using the `dotnet` command-line tool

> ## Develop with Q# + C# on Windows, using Visual Studio

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Develop with Q# & C# using Visual Studio
```

> Visual Studio offers a rich environment for developing Q# programs, offering great features like code completion and syntax highlighting that guide the developer in building their applications. The Q# Visual Studio extension contains templates for Q# files and projects as well as syntax highlighting and IntelliSense support.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Visual Studio offers a rich environment for developing Q# programs, offering great features like code completion and syntax highlighting that guide the developer in building their applications. The Q# Visual Studio extension contains templates for Q# files and projects as well as syntax highlighting and IntelliSense support.
```
```suggestion
Visual Studio offers a rich environment for developing Q# programs. The Q# Visual Studio extension contains templates for Q# files and projects as well as syntax highlighting, code completion and IntelliSense support.
```

1. Install the Q# Visual Studio extension

    - Download the [Visual Studio extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=quantum.DevKit)
    - Add the extension to Visual Studio

1. Verify the installation by creating a `Hello World` application

    - Create a new Q# application

        - Go to **File** -> **New** -> **Project**
        - Type `Q#` in the search box
        - Select **Q# Application**
        - Select **Next**
        - Choose a name and location for your application
        - Select **Create**

    - Inspect the project

        You should see that two files have been created: `Driver.cs`, which is the C# host application; and `Operation.qs`, which is a Q# program that defines a simple operation to print a message to the console.

    - Run the application

        - Select **Debug** -> **Start Without Debugging**
        - You should see the text `Hello quantum world!` printed to a console window.

> [!NOTE]
> * If you have multiple projects within one Visual Studio solution, all projects contained in the solution need to be in the same folder as the solution, or in one of its subfolders.  

> ## Develop with Q# + C#, using Visual Studio Code

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Develop with Q# & C using Visual Studio Code
```

> Visual Studio Code (VS Code) offers a rich environment for developing Q# programs across many multiple computer environments, including Windows, Linux and Mac, offering great features like code completion and syntax highlighting that guide the developer in building their applications.  The Q# VS Code extension contains syntax highlighting, and Q# code snippets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Visual Studio Code (VS Code) offers a rich environment for developing Q# programs on Windows, Linux and Mac.  The Q# VS Code extension includes support for Q# syntax highlighting, code completion, and Q# code snippets.
```

    You now have the Quantum Development Kit installed and ready to use in your own applications and libraries.

1. Verify the installation by creating a `Hello World` application

    - Create a new project:

        - Go to **View** -> **Command Palette**
        - Select **Q#: Create New Project**
            -Select **Standalone console application**
        - Navigate to the location on the file system where you would like to create the application
        - Click on the **Open new project...** button, once the project has been created

    - If you don't have already installed the C# extension for VS Code a pop-up will appear. Install the extension. 

    - Run the application:

        - Go to **Terminal** -> **New Terminal**
		- Enter `dotnet run`
        - Alternatively, go to **Terminal** and type: `dotnet run`
        - You should see the following text in the output window `Hello quantum world!`

> [!NOTE]
> * Workspaces with multiple root folders are not currently supported by the Visual Studio Code extension. If you have multiple projects within one VS Code workspace, all projects need to be contained within the same root folder.

> ## Develop with Q# + C#, using the `dotnet` command-line tool

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Develop with Q# & C# using the `dotnet` command-line tool
```
